                                           54th AORS 20L6
                              ABSTRACT SU BM ISSION FORM
Abstracts must be approved for public release. or release to the foreign governments
                                                                                                              of
Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Republic of Korea,
                                                                                                            and
the United Kingdom.
NOTE:    lt is the responsibility of the corresponding author to obtain the required release
authority from their respective Foreign Disclosure officer (FDo).
Please email the completed and certified abstract submission form to the AORS Mailbox not
later than 15 July 2OL6.
                                             Classification: UNCIASSIFI ED
   Title: Layered Contribution to Route Clearance O
   Keywords: Route clearance, Future capabirities, Terrain Visualization
   Recommended Working Group Session(s): Future Capabilities
   Last: Swedberg                First: Andrew                Org: Maneuver Support Battle Lab
   Street:   Buildins 3201, Room 3691
   City:     Fort Leonard Wood            State: Mo     lip: 65473          Country: United States of America
   Phone  Comm:      573-563-5286         Fax Comm:   573-563-6187
   Email: andrew.d.swedberg.mil@mail.mil
   Additional Authors:
   Last:                        Fi rst:                       org:
   Last:                        First:                        org:
   Last:                        Fi rst:                       org:
   Sponsor (for Contractors only):
   Printed Name:
   FDO Certification: I certify that this abstract has been reviewed and is (select one):
   @approved for public release.
   Oreleasable to these countries:
  Printed Name: Victoria L. palmer
                                                                        Date:    e   Juty 2016

                                              UNCLASSIFIED
 Abstract:
 Route Clearance (RC) is the "detection, investigation, marking and reporting, and neutralization
                                                                                                     of
 explosive hazards and other obstacles along a defined route to enable assured mobility for
                                                                                               the
 maneuver commander" (ATP 3-34.20). The purpose of route clearance is to clear obsiacles
                                                                                                 and
 ensure that the maneuver force can travel from one location to another at an operational
                                                                                            speed.
 U'S' Army Engineer RC platoons and companies conduct clearing as a part of combined arms
                                                                                                    route
clearance operations. Currently, RC patrols travel at deliberatelyilow speeds on the route in
                                                                                                  order
to detect improvised explosive devices (lEDs). This study will investigate the conditions and
capabilities that, in the future, may lead to RC leadership in having th6 confidence to travel at faster
speeds between Named Areas of Interest (NAls) on a route clearince mission. lt will investigate
layers of information and capabilities and allow RC leaders to assess the value of using such"
capabilities in planning and executing RC missions. The capability layers that will be e-xplored and
assessed are: 1) intelligence about the enemy; 2) route imagery type and availability; 3j
improvements to RC equipment organic to the RC platoon; +) conceptual future concepts related
                                                                                                      to
RC. The study will culminate in an event in late August at the Maneuver Support Batfle Lab (MSBL)
at Fort Leonard Wood, MO. Route Clearance Officers and NCOs willform a panel from which the
layers can be assessed, given a scenario and mission from which to plan a iC mission. Emerging
results from the workshop will be able to be presented at AORS.
                                             UNCI.ASSIFIED

