                                  AMSAA OPSEC COORDINATION FORM
                Impact on Crew Protection/Vehicle Survivability                          Jeffrey Corley
   Title:       due to Armor Multi-Hit Performance                        Author(s):     Russell Dibelka
                                                                                         David Hackbarth
   Type of Format: I                   XDocument       D CD/Disk          Date: I 5 July 2016 I Phone: I X2090
   Method of Release (Check Type of Release):
           X Abstract                   I D Briefing      I D Publication I D Web Posting I                D Other
   Purpose for Release:                                              Date of Release or Presentation:
   Proposed abstract for presentation of paper at Army               Nov 2016
   Operations Research Symposium
   Program Manager Approval Required: (Check One)                    DYES                               XNO
                                             OPSEC Technical Reviewer
      Intended Distribution is Statement A, a               roved for Public Release - Distribution is Unlimited
   I certify that I am technically knowledgeable to review and approve the release of the information contained in
   the enclosed format. I fully understand the threat connected with open source publications from hostile
   intelligence sources and, in my judgment, the benefits of the release outweighs the potential damage to the
   essential secrecy of the item in question. I, therefore, conclude that it is in the best interest of AMSAA, AMC,
   Arm or other DoD ro ams to release this information into the ublic domain.
                                    Reviewer's   Signature~
                                                    Pro2ram Mana2er's Review
   Name                                                      Date        I Approval Decision: (Check One)
                                                                         I D CONCUR               D NONCONCUR
                                            PM's Signature~
   Name
   Name                                                                        roval Decision: Check One)
                                                                                                  D NONCONCUR
                           OPSEC Officer's       Signature~
  Comments:
AMSAA Fonn 74-R (24 January 2011)
Previous editions of this fonn are obsolete

                                                 54th AORS 2016
                                 ABSTRACT SUBMISSION FORM
Abstracts must be approved for public release or release to the foreign governments of
Australia, Canada, France, Germany, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, and
the United Kingdom.
NOTE: It is the responsibility of the corresponding author to obtain the required release
authority from their respective Foreign Disclosure Officer (FOO).
Please email the completed and certified abstract submission form to the AORS Mailbox not
later than 15 July 2016.
                                       Security Classification: UNCLASSIFIED
   Abstract:
   Title: Impact on Crew ProtectionNehicle Survivability due to Armor Multi-Hit Performance
   Keywords: Crew Protection, Vehicle Survivability, Multi-Hit, Armor
   Recommended Working Group Session(s): Future Capabilities , Force Development
   Corresponding Author:
   Last: Corley                       First: Jeffrey             Org: U.S. AMSAA
   Street: 392 Hopkins Rd
   City:    APG                                 State: MD  Zip: 21005-5071     Country: U.S.
                                                       --
   Phone Comm : (410) 278-2090                  Fax Comm :
   Phone DSN:        DSN 298-2090               Fax DSN:
   Email: jeffrey.r.corley.civ@mail.mil
   Additional Authors:
   Last:   Dibelka                    First: Russell             Org: U.S. Army Research Lab
   Last:   Hackbarth                  First: David               Org: U.S. Army Research Lab
   Last:                              First:                     Org:
   Sponsor (for Contractors only):
   Printed Name:                                                 Org:
   Signature:
   FOO Certification: I certify that this abstract has been reviewed and is (select one) :
   <:>approved for public release.
   Oreleasable to these countries:
   Printed Name:          ~Ud1' ./.-{, ?d1s. h110 J<...
   Signature:                (     } f"'7'><-~ ff%,0/~TL_p                   Date:   7/&, /d-<]1<.,,,
                                 ,
                               I

                                                UNCLASSIFIED
 Abstract:
The ability of an armor system to defeat an onslaught of small and medium caliber armor piercing
rounds at an extremely high rate is critical for Soldier protection and mission accomplishment. How
well an armor system holds up to multiple AP hits depends on the incoming penetrator details (size,
velocity, mat~rial properties, etc.) , the spacing between penetrator strikes on the armor surface, and
the details of the armor design. For all recent U.S. Army combat vehicle programs (FCS, GCV, etc.)
requiring defeat of heavy machine gun (HMG) and medium caliber KE penetrators, part of the
requirement calls out a minimum allowable hit spacing (MAHS) when qualifying an armor system.
Surprisingly, these armor multi-hit requirements are in no way determined by factors associated with
the likelihood of near-hits in real-world combat scenarios. Rather, they have been determined by the
use of engineering judgment for the purpose of enabling laminated armor, spaced armor, and
ceramic armor systems to qualify along with the heavier monolithic metallic armors. As such, it is
unknown as to the influence this MAHS standard has had on ground combat vehicle acquisition
programs in terms of cost, risk, and performance (e.g., weight, mobility, etc.) relative to crew
protection and vehicle survivability.
Additionally, current platform vulnerability, system survivability, and force-level analysis tools assess
vehicle losses using an assumption that each impact is an independent event and do not account for
cumulative damage on vehicles. It is well known that this assumption of independence is not
mathematically correct; however, in the past, computer processing power and data storage
limitations did not allow for the "state" of vehicle functionalities to be maintained within a
system-level or combat model. Thus, there has been no real concerted effort to correlate armor
systems with multi-hit vulnerability in combat scenarios. It is not well known how much of an impact
this deficiency has had on Army decisions relative to crew protection and ground combat vehicle
survivability assessments. A significant challenge to recent ground combat vehicle programs (FCS,
GCV) have revolved around vehicle weight and the balance between protection and other critical
functions (mobility, reliability) of the vehicle. It is critical that the Army has thoroughly characterized
everything that influences Soldier protection and vehicle survivability, in an operationally relevant
environment, given it is of highest priority in our vehicle acquisition programs.
This study strives to contribute to the knowledge base to fully support Developing Army Force 2025
and addressing multiple Warfighter Challenges. The study will provide valuable data and
information for which to base a potential development of a new standard for armor requirements and
verification testing that is relevant for the operational environment. The study will also begin to
address the long-term challenge of including the effects of cumulative damage in crew protection
and vehicle survivability assessments at both the system-level and the operational effectiveness
level. This effort may have long reaching benefits that force improvements to standard Army
combat models. In addition, this study is directly applicable to the Combat Vehicle Modernization
Strategy's call for near-term (FY16-FY21) development of "advanced composite armor'' and will
provide valuable information to the Warfighter, potentially influencing requirements development,
and vehicle manufacturers and armor designers based on the following objectives:
• Understand impact of multi-hit/cumulative damage on force protection/survivability assessment at
both system and small unit levels.
• Provide sound analytical underpinnings for defining armor requirements/solutions/upgrades to
current/future ground combat vehicles .
                                                UNCLASSIFIED

